---
published_at: 2025-12-14T20:00:00-08:00
---

Sunday afternoon: Wanted to post a quick update on the wind and rain potential for tomorrow. I'll post a look at the week ahead later this evening!

Active weather returns tonight, with a chance of showers late this evening before steady rain overnight. Our ground is still quite saturated, which leads to other problems... 

More impactful is the wind, which will also ramp up late this evening. The National Weather Service has issued a Wind Advisory for areas west of the Plateau - including Redmond, Bellevue, and Issaquah - calling for winds from the south at 20 to 25 mph, with gusts up to 45 to 50 mph. I don't think the Plateau will see gusts *that* high, but in the high-30 or low-40 mph range isn't out of the question. Normally, that's not too big of a deal (I feel like I keep saying that this fall/winter...), but with the ground being so saturated from multiple inches of rain last week, downed trees and power outages are more likely throughout the entire week. Take some time to make sure you're prepared this afternoon and evening, and make sure your devices are charged up before going to bed tonight!

---

Last week, the Plateau got around four inches of rain...don't think we'll come close to matching that this week - but another 2+ inches by next weekend is very possible. That'll cause area rivers to rise above flood stage again by mid-week. Add in some wind, and we've got the makings of another active week of weather ahead. Let's take a day-by-day look.

Monday: Fairly wet and windy overnight tonight through tomorrow (Monday) night. Steadier rain in the morning, turning more showery by the afternoon and evening - probably a half- to three-quarters of an inch of rain by tomorrow night. Chance of a lightning strike or two, and it'll be a tad warm - afternoon high temps in the upper-50s! Winds from the south will be pretty gusty beginning overnight, but peaking mid-day tomorrow...still thinking peak gusts in the upper-30 mph or lower-40 mph range is most likely for the Plateau.

Tuesday: More breezy winds on tap throughout the day, as the next system moves in. Showery throughout the day, turning to steadier rain in the evening into Wednesday. Afternoon high temps drop down to the mid-50s.

Wednesday: Still wet, still breezy. Up to an inch of rain out of this second system by Wednesday evening. Starting to get a little cooler, with afternoon highs only in the upper-40s or low-50s.

Thursday and beyond: Yet another system looks to make its way through the area, bringing another round of rain into Friday. This one doesn't look as windy at this point, but does look cooler...afternoon highs in the mid- to upper-40s. Plenty of time to fine-tune the details as we get closer though.

Back tomorrow with more updates as we get into it!
