---
published_at: 2025-12-09T20:00:00-08:00
---

Tuesday night update: round two of the deluge of rain is about to begin! While the brunt of the moisture has been directed near the Washington/Oregon border most of the day, it's shifting back north. Bottom line, it's going to be wet and breezy thru Thursday. Let's break it down...

Rain: We've already had a few showers this evening, but the main activity ramps up overnight tonight. There is good chance of rain shadowing from the Olympics again, but it's quite difficult to predict where and how big it'll be. Regardless, it'll be pretty steady at least through tomorrow (Wednesday) night. Depending on where the rain shadow sets up, and how close we are to it, we could get an additional 1 to 2 inches of rain by tomorrow night. Mudslides and downed trees are very possible - like the mudslide on I-90 in North Bend this morning.

Flooding: The map is quite busy with Flood Warnings around many area rivers, in addition to a Flood Watch in place for pretty much all of western Washington through Friday. Most river levels are temporarily receding after cresting earlier today...however, they're forecast to crest even higher over the next couple days - Issaquah Creek around a foot higher on Thursday morning than this morning's crest; Snoqualmie River near Carnation around two feet higher.

Wind: It'll be gusty again overnight through tomorrow. The NWS has issued a Wind Advisory from 8pm tonight thru 10pm tomorrow for parts of the Eastside, including Bellevue, Issaquah, and Redmond - but not Sammamish or areas further east. They're calling for winds from the southwest at 20 to 30 mph, with gusts up to 40 mph...that looks pretty plausible for Sammamish too. As for timing, it'll definitely be breezy overnight, but the best chances for the strongest gusts is midday tomorrow.
