---
published_at: 2025-11-04T20:00:00-08:00
---

Tuesday evening update: for the third time in two weeks, we’re under a Wind Advisory from the National Weather Service - from 6pm tonight to 4am tomorrow (Wednesday). But the Plateau is on the very western edge of the advisory…so while they’re calling for east to southeast winds of 20-30mph, with gusts up to 45, I don’t think they’ll be that strong around here…it’ll definitely be on the gusty side, but our peak gusts should only be in the upper 30mph range. Enough to bring leaves or a few branches down, and maybe some scattered power outages.

Okay, forecast over - but let’s dig into it a bit! 

This is what’s sometimes called a “Cascadia Gap” wind event - the center of a weather system is well off-shore over the Pacific Ocean, meaning we’re only getting showers out of it. But it does cause a pretty big difference in atmospheric pressure between it and eastern Washington! Air wants to move from areas of higher pressure to areas of lower pressure…think of what happens when you blow up a balloon, then let the air back out - the high pressure inside the balloon wants to equalize with the lower pressure outside. As the air tries to get from eastern Washington out to the Pacific, it has to funnel between all the gaps in the Cascades. As it squeezes through, it actually speeds up - another analogy is what happens when you stick your thumb on the end of a garden hose. (That increase in speed and pressure can cause these winds to be fairly warm too!) 

This is more impactful to communities higher up in the foothills, closer to the actual gaps in the mountains - like Skykomish and Gold Bar along US-2, North Bend and Snoqualmie along I-90, or Enumclaw and Buckley along SR-410. They can get some howling winds out of these types of events. Since the Plateau roughly sits on the I-90 corridor, we get the residual of the winds from Snoqualmie Pass. But by the time they get down to Bellevue or Seattle, they’re just breezy!
