---
published_at: 2025-12-22T20:00:00-08:00
---

'Tis the three days before Christmas, let's look at the forecast: two storms are a-brewing, which might leave some aghast.

Rhymes and parodies aside, we do have two storms on tap for this week...one this afternoon/evening, and one during the day Wednesday (Christmas Eve) - both include rain and wind. There's still some uncertainty around Wednesday's storm, but it might end up being the stronger one of the two.

Let's look at today's system first, since we know more about it. Cooler start to the day, and scattered showers this morning and afternoon. Rain will pick up for a few hours this evening, turning showery again overnight. Winds will get gusty along with the steadier rain, coming from the south again...but not expecting anything crazy, just another "normal early winter" storm.

Calmer day Tuesday - can't rule out a few stray showers, but otherwise dry and cool, with afternoon highs only in the mid- to upper-40s.

Wednesday, things could get interesting. I'll preface this by saying there is still a good bit of uncertainty with what impacts we'll see, and hopefully we'll get some clarity by this evening or early tomorrow. But in the interest of "prepare for the worst, hope for the best"...a system looks to develop off the coast of California late Tuesday night, and will scoot north along the west coast towards Washington and British Columbia during the day Wednesday. Depending on how strong it gets, and how close it is to the coast, we could be in for a windy day across the region. Best-case scenario, it's either pretty weak or stays away from the Washington coast, meaning it's slightly breezy at most around the area...worst-case, it's strong *and* just off the coast, meaning it could be pretty windy. For now, it's probably best to assume it'll be on the windier side.

Good news is, Thursday and Friday look much calmer: showers and cooler temps! Bad news is, chances are very slim for a white Christmas around the Plateau...but the mountains and passes will be!

Back later with more updates!

---

Monday late-night update: Still a lot of uncertainty in the forecasts for the potential windstorm on Wednesday…some are calling for strong winds all the way from Northern California up to British Columbia - but others still call for barely a light breeze. At this point, I’m kinda leaning towards a windy day on Wednesday (during the day at least!), but there’s still plenty of ways for this storm to “bust”. Hopefully we’ll have more clarity tomorrow morning!
