---
published_at: 2025-12-10T20:00:00-08:00
---

Wednesday midafternoon update: While the Plateau has been right on the edge of the rain shadow for most of the day, we've still managed to eke out nearly three-quarters of an inch of rain today. However, places that haven't been in the rain shadow are much higher, well over an inch in most spots - both Snoqualmie and North Bend are close to two inches today! Rain will continue throughout the evening and overnight, before tapering off throughout the day tomorrow.

However, that doesn't mean the threat of flooding and mudslides goes down just yet...both the Snoqualmie River near Carnation and Issaquah Creek are forecast to crest in Major Flood Stage overnight / early tomorrow morning. (Unfortunately, I can't find any gauge data for the Sammamish River, from Lake Sammamish north thru Redmond...but it's safe to assume it'll be flooding as well.) I-90 is still closed between Snoqualmie and North Bend.

---

Wednesday evening update: Things are relatively quiet around Seattle and the Eastside, though the Cascade foothills of King and Snohomish Counties are still getting pretty steady rain. The bulk of the moderate/heavy rain is currently focused well to our north, specifically in Whatcom and Skagit Counties...rivers are experiencing major flooding, and are forecast to break record levels by tomorrow morning. If you're interested in keeping an eye on what's going on up there, give Whatcom County Weather a follow!

Closer to home around the Plateau, chances of rain continue overnight. The moisture will shift south overnight through tomorrow morning, so we'll get more steady rain tomorrow before the firehose finally shuts off by tomorrow evening. A couple tenths tonight, then an additional half-inch to an inch by tomorrow night. (Don't hold your breath, but Friday looks like scattered showers!)
