---
published_at: 2025-12-16T20:00:00-08:00
---

Tuesday morning update: Calm before the next storm. Showery and breezy throughout the day, before the activity ramps back up this afternoon. Looking at the map of NWS alerts, the entirety of western Washington is covered by at least one alert!

Closer to home, the Wind Advisory goes into effect this afternoon at 4pm, lasting until tomorrow at 6am. They're still expecting winds from the southwest at 20 to 30 mph, with gusts up to 40-45 mph. While that's definitely within the realm of possibility, some forecasts have been consistently hinting at a bit of a "wind shadow" covering the Plateau overnight...not worth betting on though. Regardless, the window for peak gusts is roughly 9pm to 3am. Steadier rain will pick up this afternoon through the overnight hours as well - somewhere between a half- and a full-inch by tomorrow morning.

Back later today with another update!

---

Tuesday night update: The rain sure has picked up! While it's been breezy, we're still a few hours away from the peak winds... good news is that I don't think the Plateau will get the worst of it this time around.

We are still under the Wind Advisory from the NWS until 6am tomorrow morning - in general, they're still calling for winds from the southwest at 20 to 30 mph, with gusts up to 40-45 mph. I'm thinking we'll stay under those numbers - but they're still within the realm of possibility.

(For reference, Snohomish County and Whidbey Island look like they'll get the brunt of the winds from the west, screaming down the Strait of Juan de Fuca...they're under a High Wind Warning as a result. Washington Weather Chasers and Whidbey Island Weather Page are good resources to follow up there.)

As the front crosses through the area around midnight, temperatures will drop behind it too - tomorrow could be one of those rare days where our "daily high" temp occurs at 12 midnight or 1am! We'll stay in the low- to mid-50s for the next few hours (until just past midnight), then drop down to the low- to mid-40s for the rest of the day. Depending on how much wind we end up getting, wind chills (the "feels like" temp) could be down in the 30s!
