---
published_at: 2026-01-23T20:00:00-08:00
---

Aside from the northern lights earlier this week, it's been a boring stretch in terms of the weather - at least here in the PNW...down south and back east, they're in the early stages of a pretty big winter storm. That's where my attention has been the past few days!

The most "excitement" around here is that tonight (Friday night) and tomorrow night (Saturday night) will be pretty cold...maybe even the coldest of the season so far. The National Weather Service put out a Cold Weather Advisory for the Eastside, including parts of the Plateau - it's in effect from midnight tonight (Friday night) through 9am tomorrow (Saturday) morning, because it could drop down to the low-20s. Winds will be very light, so the "feels like" temp shouldn't be much different - but still, it'll be pretty cold if you're out and about early tomorrow morning! 

Otherwise, more of the same for the next several days. Clear skies will continue to keep us on the chillier side - afternoon highs in the low- to mid-40s (though it'll feel warmer in the direct sun), and overnight lows in the upper-20s to just above freezing into early next week. A slight chance of precip during the day Monday, but would be very light if any...otherwise, next good chance of rain appears later in the week next week.

Now for something a little different - I've got good news, interesting news, and bad news...good news is, this is the final weekend of sunsets before 5pm until November (November 1st, to be exact)! Interesting news, today was the 11th day in a row with no measurable precipitation at Sea-Tac. According to the NWS Seattle, the current record for rain-free days in January is 15, back in 1963 - tying or breaking that mark is definitely possible! Bad news, snow packs in the mountains aren't great. Not only does that mean poor skiing conditions, that could negatively affect our water resources this summer.

Hopefully we've got more to talk about next week...hope you have a good weekend, and stay warm!
