---
published_at: 2026-03-08T21:51:09-07:00
---

So about that "March comes in like a lion" thing...the DST change this morning must have woken the lion, because this week is looking pretty active! (Sorry in advance for the long post...)

First off - if you've been looking at the weather apps the past couple days, you might have noticed that ❄️ icon. I'll cut to the chase: don't get your hopes up...but there is a chance. However, like the chances a few weeks ago, they're fairly slim. Overnight temps tonight (Sunday) into early Monday morning, and again Monday night into Tuesday morning will get to near-freezing - but as usual, it all depends on how much precip is available to work with.  Showers are in the forecast both tonight and tomorrow night, but we'll just have to wait and see! Regardless, if any snow does fall, it won't be very impactful... road temps are warm enough that they shouldn't ice up, and afternoon highs will get into the 40s - meaning back to liquid rain by the afternoons.

Next up - there's a chance of scattered thunderstorms tomorrow (Monday) too! This cold air that's moving into the area makes the atmosphere relatively unstable, which can cause thunderstorms and small hail (the "other kind" of white precipitation!). This is pretty normal for this time of year, though it's usually common later in March and April. They're more likely along the coast and near the King/Snohomish County line (the typical Convergence Zone area), but they could pop up anywhere.

Not done yet - looking at the mid-week timeframe, Wednesday could be on the windy side. Lots of uncertainty still around timing and impacts, which will come into better view in the next day or so...doesn't look anything like a major wind storm, but "just" a decently windy day - those beautiful cherry blossoms sure won't like it though.

One more thing (for now) - rain! Once we get through the more scattered showers early this week, the mid/late-week timeframe looks quite wet...like, up to 3 or 4 inches of rain Wednesday thru Saturday-wet. Good news is, the mountains should some good snow out of it! The rest of us get to deal with the impacts of all the liquid though - flooding concerns will ramp back up.

Whew...if you've made it all the way this far - thank you!! As a bonus, I'll let you in on a little secret 🤫 I've been working on a few things behind the scenes recently that are *almost* ready for prime-time...a new website, new graphics (hello Instagram!), and maybe even an iPhone app. 🤐 They'll start rolling out in the next month or so!

I'll definitely be posting more frequently this week - back tomorrow with a *shorter* short-term update!