---
published_at: 2026-03-09T20:25:52-07:00
---

Monday night update: Hope you didn't get your hopes _too_ high - it snowed!!

Right around 7pm, a relatively strong band of precip moved through - started off as rain, but quickly turned to ice pellets, which turned my yard pretty white pretty fast! It also dropped the air temp from 41º just before 7pm to 34º just before 8pm...plenty cold for snow. At last check, just light snow was falling...but I'll take it! Road temps are too warm for it to accumulate on pavement - though the ice pellets don't melt as quickly, so it can create slick conditions, especially as it's falling. Be careful if you're out driving or walking!

Chances remain for scattered showers overnight into tomorrow morning, but it's anyone's guess where they'll pop up - a mix of rain, snow, ice pellets, and/or sleet are all possible...but not expecting much. Temperatures do look to stay right around, if not slightly below freezing tonight. Even if we don't get much new precip overnight, I wouldn't be surprised to wake up tomorrow morning with white-ish lawns and roofs left over from tonight's ice pellets and light snow!

Showers and maybe a few sunbreaks during the day Tuesday, before the next system begins rolling in Tuesday night. At first, the main headline is (liquid) rain...but the big story by Wednesday evening will be the winds. Seems like a fairly "usual" wind event - at this point, looking most likely that it'll be winds primarily from the south/southeast, with strongest gusts in the 30-40 mph range. We'll fine-tune the details tomorrow.
