---
published_at: 2026-01-05T20:00:00-08:00
---

Two systems move through over the next few days - bringing rain, gusty winds, and colder temps.

Right off the bat though, let's talk about that "S" word: Some weather apps are showing some snow flakes for the Issaquah/Sammamish areas over the next few days. While I wouldn't be surprised if we see some flakes mixing in, especially Wednesday/Thursday, I am not expecting we'll see any accumulation. It's just not cold enough for it to stick...sorry to disappoint you! (On the other hand, the mountains will get dumped on!)

Back to reality...tomorrow (Tuesday) looks pretty wet. This system approaches the coast overnight, bringing rain to the Plateau by mid-morning. Rain will taper off by the evening, leaving us with around a half-inch of precip. It'll be gusty during the morning and early afternoon, coming from the south...doesn't look like anything we haven't already experienced this season though. Afternoon high temps top out in the mid-40s, before dropping to the upper-30s overnight. Showers overnight into Wednesday, before the next system arrives...

A similar story for Wednesday and Thursday - another system moves through, bringing more rain. Though the difference this time is the cooler temps... Wednesday's afternoon high might be right around 40º, but the overnight low will be near the freezing mark. Personally, my biggest concern would be black ice on Thursday morning.

Conditions have to be *just right* for us to have a good shot at snow accumulation...and unfortunately, this just doesn't seem like we'll get there. At this point, the best chance for getting some mixed rain/snow looks to be Thursday morning, though it's possible to get some "chunky rain" during the day Wednesday. I'll keep an eye on it as it gets closer though!
