---
published_at: 2026-03-14T21:43:00-07:00
---

Whew…what a week! Let’s recap: a trace of snow, a distant rumble of thunder, a wind storm, a snow storm…but no partridges in pear trees. After a brief break to catch our breath, the main weather story here in the PNW becomes rain…lots and lots of rain.  But first - with all that melting snow today, there’s lots of extra runoff in the streets…temps are supposed to drop below freezing tonight into tomorrow (Sunday) morning, so slick spots and black ice are a very real potential, along with some patchy freezing fog. Be extra cautious if you’re out walking or driving! Temps will quickly warm into the low-40s by the afternoon, prompting more melting - and I don’t see freezing temps in the forecast for at least the next week!  The weather is downright nuts across the country this weekend and early next week…happy to point you towards other reputable resources if you’re interested in learning more. While we’re not looking at blizzard warnings, severe weather outbreaks, or triple-digit heat, the Pacific Northwest is going to be dealing with a lot of rain. The plume of moisture aimed in our direction is actually connected all the way back to the system currently dumping torrential rain on the Hawaiian islands - that’s part of the reason this setup is sometimes called a “Pineapple Express.” But while it won’t pack that big of a punch as it gets here, it will bring some warmer temps along with it.  The brunt of the moisture takes aim at Vancouver Island and British Columbia, but could easily shift south a few hundred miles and focus on western Washington instead. If it stays to our north, we’ll get 2-3 inches of rain throughout the week…if it shifts south, higher amounts are possible. Regardless, pretty safe to plan for frequent showers Sunday afternoon on. What might be more noticeable are the mild (dare I say, “spring-like”) temps - mid- to upper-50s by mid-week, maybe even a 60° day or two, and overnight lows only in the mid-40s to around 50°. The air will definitely feel heavy, if not slightly muggy at times, as there will be a lot of moisture in the air even if it’s not raining.  Alright, that’s probably more than enough for now…back tomorrow with another look at things!
